# EV-Simulation-Testbed
Electric vehicles (EVs) have been identified as a better alternative to more traditional cars with internal combustion engines (ICEs) as they emit fewer greenhouse gases and so do not harm the environment as much as ICEs. How- ever, a big disadvantage of electric vehicles is the limited range for a single battery charge. This had led to slower adoption of EVs by drivers because of this so called "range anxiety" - the fear that an Electric Vehicle does not have enough range to reach the set destination and hence can lead to the EV drivers being stranded. To counteract this and allow for range predictability, EV soft- ware models are made to accurately predict range and energy consumption values. This project aims to add to available research by modelling an electric vehicle to accurately predict energy consumption for different driving cycles. The project is a MATLAB/Simulink based model of the 2014 BMW i3 car. A driver model is employed to mimic a real life driver following a drive cycle. A motor and inverter efficiency model is employed using efficiency maps from industry researchers. A braking model is employed to model the series braking system in the model car. In this, a regenerative braking strategy is used to calculate the regenerative braking power. A vehicle chassis model is employed to model the forces acting on the vehicle. An auxiliary system model is mod- elled with an exploration of the HVAC system modelling in detail from first principles in physics. Finally, the battery model is created using two industry- standard equivalent circuit techniques. An evaluation of the model was done using published experimental results for the model car for the NEDC, EPA and WLTP driving cycles and an error of 3% to 15% was obtained which is acceptable for this project.
